release: Add release notes for Metals 0.11.8 (#4214)
scalameta/metals: website/blog/2022-08-01-aluminium.md

---
author: Rikito Taniguchi
title: Metals v0.11.8 - Aluminium
authorURL: https://twitter.com/<login>
authorImageURL: https://github.com/<login>.png
---

We're happy to announce the release of Metals v0.11.8, which brings a number of improvements for both Scala 2 and Scala3.

<table>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Commits since last release</td>
    <td align="center">78</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Merged PRs</td>
    <td align="center">74</td>
  </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>Contributors</td>
    <td align="center">14</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Closed issues</td>

>     <td align="center"></td>

Author: Realized you filled this in 0.11.7 release note https://github.com/scalameta/metals/blob/d2ab724848b0c8b5c066694e5cf431c809715d34/website/blog/2022-07-04-aluminium.md?plain=1#L25-L28 how did you count it? count by hand? or search issues that are closed since the last release?

Reviewer: it's done manually. you need to go through closed issues since prev release, set their milestone as 0.11.8 and then you will see the amount here - https://github.com/scalameta/metals/milestone/52

Author: Thanks, I checked the closed issues by https://github.com/scalameta/metals/issues?q=is%3Aissue+closed%3A%3E2022-07-04+ and added them to 0.11.8 milestone

Reviewer 2: I wonder if adding closed issues/PRs can't be automated (probably can)

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>New features</td>
    <td align="center">6</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

> For full details: https://github.com/scalameta/metals/milestone/<num>?closed=1

Author: We don't actually use milestones for each release, should I keep this?

Metals is a language server for Scala that works with VS Code, Vim, Emacs and
Sublime Text. Metals is developed at the
[Scala Center](https://scala.epfl.ch/) and [VirtusLab](https://virtuslab.com)
with the help from [Lunatech](https://lunatech.com) along with contributors from
the community.

## TL;DR

Check out [https://scalameta.org/metals/](https://scalameta.org/metals/), and
give Metals a try!

- [Scala 3] Type completion
- [Scala 3] Auto complete and import extension methods
- [Scala 3] ConvertToNamedParameters code action
- [Scala 3] ScaladocCompletion for Scala3
- [Scala 3] Add interpolation completions
- [Scala 2] Automatically import types in string interpolations
- More stable code navigation across subprojects
- Code Action documents
- Support Scala 3.2.0-RC3, Scala 3.2.0-RC2

and a lot of bugfixes!

> ## [Scala 3] Type Competion

Author: @vzmerr Hey, Ina, could add some words about the Scala3 type completions with screen-recording?

Reviewer 3: Yes, sure. Not sure about the screen recording though. Currently the completions keep crashing for me :( I would try and let you know.

Reviewer 4: Is it on the newest version? That is very worrying, what errors are you getting?

Author: Oh, thank you for letting me know that, if it's a serious one, we may want to consider reverting the change for this version, and introduce polished type completion in the next release.

Reviewer 3: Yes, it is on the newest version

Reviewer 3: The error is `ERROR searching for `dotty/tools/dotc/util/SourcePosition#source.` failedjava.nio.channels.ClosedChannelException`

Reviewer 4: That's the issue I fixed, please check if you are indeed in the newest version.

Author: Good to hear, it seems an already fixed issue. I appreciate if you could record a short demo video (because you know the most about this feature), but if you busy, let me know, I can take a video :)

Reviewer 3: yes, sure, would be doing it right now.

Reviewer 3: I was trying to produce this demo, but the completions are not working in consistency with the tests put on the PR. There are extra results getting produced also, on which the suffixed do not get added. I guess either there are still unresolved issues or this is just specific to my instance.

Reviewer 4: Could you just show the examples that do work? It's your work, you should be able to showcase it.

Reviewer 3: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109077949/182587035-5a044f54-b775-410e-9e8a-2f2888dc4241.mov

I wonder if this would be a good idea to only show the parts that are working

Reviewer 4: It's fine, you can mention the cases where it is not working. The other alternative is not to mention it at all.

Reviewer 3: I came up with this. Please give me feedback :) 
![Type Completion](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109077949/182594026-e80f6832-8084-42cd-9a33-b6aee92227e3.gif)

Reviewer 3: Came up with this :) Please give me feedback
![Type Completion](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/109077949/182594564-9c741030-d3d1-4d47-94c0-a5285ca71030.gif)

## [Scala 3] Auto complete and import extension methods

Scala3 introduced `extension methods` that allows defining new methods to the existing types.

However, previously, Metals couldn't auto-complete extension methods, and developers have to find an appropriate extension methods from workspace and import it by hand. It is quite time-consuming.

Now, Metals provides auto-completion for the extension methods and auto-import them!

## [Scala 3] ConvertToNamedParameters code action

[Metals 0.11.7 added `ConvertToNamedParameters` code action to Scala2](https://scalameta.org/metals/blog/2022/07/04/aluminium#scala-2-add-converttonamedarguments-code-action).

Thanks to the contribution by [@jkciesluk](https://github.com/jkciesluk), this feature is now available for Scala3!

![convert-to-named](https://i.imgur.com/9i7MWoQ.gif)

## [Scala 3] Scaladoc completion

Metals now supports auto completing scaladoc completion in Scala3. Typing `/**`, you can auto-complete scaladoc template for the method, class, and etc!

![scala-doc-completion](https://i.imgur.com/MEJUXr3.gif)

## [Scala 3] Interpolation completion

> ## [Scala 2] Auto import types in string interpolations

Author: @tgodzik Hey, could you write something on interpolation completion stuff?

> ## More stable code navigation across subprojects

Author: I'd like to mention something is improved by https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/4176
Do you think this is enough, or do you think we don't need to mention it? @kpodsiad

Author: Yeah, providing concrete examples is always a good idea! 
However, it might be challenging to describe this change to end-users, so I'm also fine with just telling them something has improved in this version without a screenshot.

Previously, Metals sometimes fail to code navigation such as find-all-references and go-to-defintions across projects.

Now, Metals provides more stable code navigation thanks to the work by [@kpodsiad](https://github.com/kpodsiad)!

If you're interested in technical details, please check out the PR [\#4176](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/4176).

## Code Action documents

Have you ever wondered what kind of refactorings are available in Metals?
Check out the new document! You can learn the list of code actions with examples.
https://scalameta.org/metals/docs/codeactions/codeactions

> Big thanks to [zmerr](https://github.com/vzmerr) for writing this documentation.

Author: I'm actually not sure which account should I point to 😅 FYI @vzmerr

Reviewer 3: anyone you prefer😅

---
author: Rikito Taniguchi
title: Metals v0.11.8 - Aluminium
authorURL: https://twitter.com/<login>
authorImageURL: https://github.com/<login>.png
---

We're happy to announce the release of Metals v0.11.8, which brings a number of improvements for both Scala 2 and Scala3.

<table>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Commits since last release</td>
    <td align="center">78</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Merged PRs</td>
    <td align="center">74</td>
  </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>Contributors</td>
    <td align="center">14</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Closed issues</td>
    <td align="center">22</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>New features</td>
    <td align="center">6</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

For full details: https://github.com/scalameta/metals/milestone/52?closed=1

Metals is a language server for Scala that works with VS Code, Vim, Emacs and
Sublime Text. Metals is developed at the
[Scala Center](https://scala.epfl.ch/) and [VirtusLab](https://virtuslab.com)
with the help from [Lunatech](https://lunatech.com) along with contributors from
the community.

## TL;DR

Check out [https://scalameta.org/metals/](https://scalameta.org/metals/), and
give Metals a try!

- [Scala 3] Type completion

> - [Scala 3] Auto complete and import extension methods

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [Scala 3] Auto import and completion for extension methods
```

- [Scala 3] ConvertToNamedParameters code action
- [Scala 3] ScaladocCompletion for Scala3

> - [Scala 3] Add interpolation completions

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- [Scala 3] Completions in string interpolation
```

- [Scala 2] Automatically import types in string interpolations
- More stable code navigation across subprojects

> - Code Action documents

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Code Action documentation
```

- Support Scala 3.2.0-RC3, Scala 3.2.0-RC2

and a lot of bugfixes!

## [Scala 3] Type Competion

## [Scala 3] Auto complete and import extension methods

> Scala3 introduced `extension methods` that allows defining new methods to the existing types.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Scala3 introduced `extension methods` that allow defining new methods to your existing types.
```

> However, previously, Metals couldn't auto-complete extension methods, and developers have to find an appropriate extension methods from workspace and import it by hand. It is quite time-consuming.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
However, previously, Metals couldn't auto-complete extension methods, and developers have to find an appropriate extension method from their workspace and import it by hand. It is was time-consuming and not alway beginner friendly.
```

> Now, Metals provides auto-completion for the extension methods and auto-import them!

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Now, Metals provides auto-completion for extension methods and auto-imports them!
```

![extension-methods](https://i.imgur.com/EAbVHeH.gif)

## [Scala 3] ConvertToNamedParameters code action

[Metals 0.11.7 added `ConvertToNamedParameters` code action to Scala2](https://scalameta.org/metals/blog/2022/07/04/aluminium#scala-2-add-converttonamedarguments-code-action).

Thanks to the contribution by [@jkciesluk](https://github.com/jkciesluk), this feature is now available for Scala3!

![convert-to-named](https://i.imgur.com/9i7MWoQ.gif)

## [Scala 3] Scaladoc completion

> Metals now supports auto completing scaladoc completion in Scala3. Typing `/**`, you can auto-complete scaladoc template for the method, class, and etc!

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Metals now supports offers Scaladoc completions in Scala3. When Typing `/**` you get an option to auto-complete a scaladoc template for the method, class, and etc!
```

![scala-doc-completion](https://i.imgur.com/MEJUXr3.gif)

> ## [Scala 3] Interpolation completion

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## [Scala 3] Interpolation completion

In the previous versions whenever users wanted to include a value in a string using string interpolation they would need to do it all manually. Now it is possible to get an automatic conversion to string interpolation when user types `$value` as well as automatic wrapping in `{}` when accessing members of such value.

![scala3-interpolation](https://i.imgur.com/EyFKpiv.gif)
```

Author: thanks! added

> ## [Scala 2] Auto import types in string interpolations
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## [Scala 2] Auto import types in string interpolations

Previously, the only suggestions for string interpolations would come from the currently available symbols in scope. This meant that if you wanted to bring something from another package you would need to do it manually. This is now resolved and users can easily get symbols automatically imported as if working in a normal code.

![scala2-inteprolation](https://i.imgur.com/cCWTQnj.gif)

The feature is also being worked on for Scala 3.
```

## More stable code navigation across subprojects

Previously, Metals sometimes fail to code navigation such as find-all-references and go-to-defintions across projects.

> 

Reviewer 5: IMO this doesn't really add anything to the release notes. I think we should either cut this and add to the list of "improvements or bugfixes" or if we think it's important to give it its own section then down below I think we should expand on it instead of just saying it was done and linking the pr.

Author: Hm, right I just wanted to shout out because this is a great improvement (from the perspective of someone who knows the Metals internal), but as an end-user, it's just one of the bug fixes.

Maybe we can say "More stable code navigation across subprojects" in TL;DR and do not add a section for it. What do you think about it @kpodsiad ?

Reviewer 4: I would add a bugfixes section or `miscellaneous` section and put there anything that doesn't require a section

Author: I decided to just mention this improvement in TL;DR, and not have a section for it. FYI @kpodsiad 

- If we explain the details, I think it is too much about technical details, and I don't think end-users are interested in that.
- If we omit the details, it says nothing like the section I wrote.
- I don't think `miscellaneous` is a good idea, because it's the role of `Merged PRs` section I guess.

Now, Metals provides more stable code navigation thanks to the work by [@kpodsiad](https://github.com/kpodsiad)!

If you're interested in technical details, please check out the PR [\#4176](https://github.com/scalameta/metals/pull/4176).

## Code Action documents

Have you ever wondered what kind of refactorings are available in Metals?

> Check out the new document! You can learn the list of code actions with examples.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Check out this new page in the documentation! You can see a list of all the code actions in Metals with examples.
```

authorURL: https://twitter.com/<login>
authorImageURL: https://github.com/<login>.png
---

We're happy to announce the release of Metals v0.11.8, which brings a number of improvements for both Scala 2 and Scala 3.

<table>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Commits since last release</td>
    <td align="center">78</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Merged PRs</td>
    <td align="center">74</td>
  </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>Contributors</td>
    <td align="center">14</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Closed issues</td>
    <td align="center">22</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>New features</td>
    <td align="center">6</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

For full details: https://github.com/scalameta/metals/milestone/52?closed=1

Metals is a language server for Scala that works with VS Code, Vim, Emacs and
Sublime Text. Metals is developed at the
[Scala Center](https://scala.epfl.ch/) and [VirtusLab](https://virtuslab.com)
with the help from [Lunatech](https://lunatech.com) along with contributors from
the community.

## TL;DR

Check out [https://scalameta.org/metals/](https://scalameta.org/metals/), and
give Metals a try!

- [Scala 3] Type completion
- [Scala 3] Auto import and completion for extension methods

> - [Scala 3] ConvertToNamedParameters code action

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Scala 3] Convert to Named Parameters code action
```

> - [Scala 3] ScaladocCompletion for Scala3

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Scala 3] Scaladoc Completion for Scala3
```

- [Scala 3] Completions in string interpolation
- [Scala 2] Automatically import types in string interpolations
- More stable code navigation across subprojects
- Code Action documentation
- Support Scala 3.2.0-RC3, Scala 3.2.0-RC2

and a lot of bugfixes!

## [Scala 3] Type Competion

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This newly implemented feature for Scala 3 is not only adding necessary `[]` and `{}` suffixes to type completions; but also, it is filtering out some of the invalid completion results.

This is still a work in progress though, so please let us know if you encounter any missing or invalid results, by opening an issue.
```

Reviewer 4: As this is a new feature so please let us know if you encounter any missing or invalid results, by opening an issue.

Author: Thank you @vzmerr ! Added the section with tgodzik's modification and your screen-recording :tada:

## [Scala 3] Auto import and completion for extension methods

Scala3 introduced `extension methods` that allow defining new methods to your existing types.

> However, previously, Metals couldn't auto-complete extension methods, and developers have to find an appropriate extension method from their workspace and import it by hand. It was time-consuming and not alway beginner friendly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
However, previously, Metals couldn't auto-complete extension methods, and developers had to find an appropriate extension method from their workspace and import it by hand. It was time-consuming and not alway beginner friendly.
```

> However, previously, Metals couldn't auto-complete extension methods, and developers have to find an appropriate extension method from their workspace and import it by hand. It was time-consuming and not alway beginner friendly.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
However, previously, Metals couldn't auto-complete extension methods, and developers have to find an appropriate extension method from their workspace and import it by hand. It was time-consuming and not always beginner friendly.
```

Now, Metals provides auto-completion for extension methods and automatically imports them!

![extension-methods](https://i.imgur.com/EAbVHeH.gif)

## [Scala 3] ConvertToNamedParameters code action

[Metals 0.11.7 added `ConvertToNamedParameters` code action to Scala2](https://scalameta.org/metals/blog/2022/07/04/aluminium#scala-2-add-converttonamedarguments-code-action).

> Thanks to the contribution by [@jkciesluk](https://github.com/jkciesluk), this feature is now available for Scala3!

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Thanks to the contribution by [@jkciesluk](https://github.com/jkciesluk), this feature is now available for Scala 3!
```

![convert-to-named](https://i.imgur.com/9i7MWoQ.gif)

## [Scala 3] Scaladoc completion

> Metals now supports offers Scaladoc completions in Scala3. When Typing `/**` you get an option to auto-complete a scaladoc template for the method, class, and etc!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Metals now supports offering Scaladoc completions in Scala3. When Typing `/**` you get an option to auto-complete a scaladoc template for the method, class, and etc!
```

![scala-doc-completion](https://i.imgur.com/MEJUXr3.gif)

## [Scala 3] Completions in string interpolation

> In the previous versions, whenever users wanted to include a value in a string using string interpolation, they would need to do it all manually. Now it is possible to get an automatic conversion to string interpolation when users type `$value` as well as automatic wrapping in `{}` when accessing members of such value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the previous versions, whenever users wanted to include a value in a string using string interpolation, they would have need to do it all manually. Now it is possible to get an automatic conversion to string interpolation when users type `$value` as well as automatic wrapping in `{}` when accessing members of such value.
```

![scala3-interpolation](https://i.imgur.com/EyFKpiv.gif)

## [Scala 2] Automatically import types in string interpolations

> Previously, the only suggestions for string interpolations would come from the currently available symbols in scope. This meant that if you wanted to bring something from another package, you would need to do it manually.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Previously, the only suggestions for string interpolations was coming from the currently available symbols in scope. This meant that if you wanted to bring something from another package, you would have needed to do it manually.
```

This problem is now resolved. Users can easily get symbols automatically imported as if working in a normal code.

![scala2-inteprolation](https://i.imgur.com/cCWTQnj.gif)

The feature also works for Scala 3.

## More stable code navigation across subprojects

> Previously, Metals sometimes fail to code navigation such as find-all-references and go-to-defintions across projects.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Previously, Metals sometimes failed to code navigate such as  in `Find All References` and `Go to Definition`s across projects.
```
